(R)
EVANS
AND ASSOCIATES mc.
DATE: July 30, 2007
TO: Bob Hutchinson
FROM: Jon Harper
SUBJECT: Task 3.0 - Slab Design Review
PROJ ECT: Courthouse Square - Slab Evaluation
PROJECT NO: MARN0000-0036
COPIES:
This memo is intended to provide a brief summary of work completed to date regarding the Courthouse Square
Slab Evaluation proj ect. DEA has completed tasks 1.0 (Floor Elevation Survey), 2.0 (Construction Document
Review) and 3.0 (Slab Design Review) specific to the fifth floor which appeared to have the most cosmetic
damage. Our preliminary conclusions are as follows:
Task 1.0 Measure spot elevations at 15 individual locations at the fifth floor focused in an area at the northeast
side of the building. (Directly north ofthe east stairwell.) Survey information previously provided in full in a
separate deliverable. Partial survey information provided below.
Task 2_0 Review general contractors' documents relative to slab formwork methods including shoring and re-
shoring removal. Review special inspection reports relative to slab construction. This includes slab
reinforcement inspection and testing of concrete strength for the concrete slabs. Review rebar shop drawings and
steel tendon drawings and calculations. Review contractor requests for information (RFl's) relative to the slab
construction. Reviewed construction documents provided by Marion County and Arbuckle Costic
Architects.
Task 3.1 Review as-built structural drawings to determine slab reinforcement information. Compare with rebar
and steel tendon shop drawings. In general, as-built structural drawings match rebar and steel tendon shop
drawings. See itemized comments below for specific irregularities or concerns.
Task 3.2 Analyze the existing slab design at the fifth floor level to verify structural adequacy to support required
vertical loads. DEA analyzed iive individual slab segments located at the fifth floor level (see attached
calculations). All five conditions were modeled based on the rebar and steel tendon shop drawings. Slab
appears adequate at all locations to support the required vertical loads.
2100 Southwest River Parkway Portland Oregon 97201 Telephone: 503.223.6663 Facsimile; 503.223.2701

Bob Hutchinson
July 30, 2007
Page 2
Task 3.3 Calculate slab deflection due to dead and live load and compare with the as-built measurements. See
table below for surveyed deflections versus calculated deflections.
 
Location Surveyed Deflection Calculated Deflection Asuweyed V5 ca|C,,|a,ed

W0-5 In addition to task summaries listed above, the following items/issues were discovered during this task and should
be noted: 
There appears to be a discrepancy between the number of tendons indicated on the fifth floor pt shop
drawings and the fifth floor elongation (inspection) reports relative to slab segments at Grids H. The
slab at these locations was checked forthe tendon configuration depicted in the elongation reports and
appears adequate, but this raises the question as to whether there might have been conliision in the field
regarding the layout of the banded tendons possibly leading to improper placement.
In a structural observation report dated February 24, 2000, Tim Terich (with Century West Engineering)
states: "Observed the floor grinding of slabs in the west stairs, where the concrete was poured too high.
Grinding has exposed 2-3 tendons running parallel to the door opening. The tendons lie within of
the top of the slab. These tendons are not significant to the integrity of the slab. The tendons Mr. Terich
refers to are distributed tendons running in the east-west direction. The removal of these tendons would
not be expected to impact the slabs structural integrity. However, this does raise the question as to
whether other, more important, tendons were cut in the field in a similar fashion without documentation.
RFI 22 states "Are there more pt cables required between l0 l0a, Structural engineer answered
"Yes. See shops for adj ustment.". DEA was unable to locate pt shop drawings showing a modification.
DEA located a fax transmittal dated July 22, 1999 from Tim Terich which states: "Attached is a re-design
of reinforcing near the west shear wall to account for the removal of 'short' tendons." The sketch
referenced in this transmittal was not located.
There was a mark-up by Mr. Terich on the third floor rebar shop drawings calling for a tighter rebar
spacing than what was originally detailed (denoted by hand written comments by Mr. Terich on the shop
drawing). Mr. Terich included a note on the fourth and fifth floor rebar shop drawings directing the
contractor to reference the third floor rebar shop drawing for information. It is possible this additional
reinforcement was not added in the field if the contractor was building off of the shop drawings and did
not catch the 'reference' note on the fourth and fifth floor drawings.

Bob Hutchinson
July 30, 2007
Page 3
0 In a letter dated May 5, 1999, Leonard Lodder (with Arbuckle Costic Architects) writes to Glen Cook
(with Century West Engineering) saying: have recently succeeded in reviewing with the Owner's
project manager your request for additional fees to cover perceived changes in scope for the project
during the design development and construction document phases of the project. Unfortunately, our
review is tempered by the significant number of RFIS from the Contractor regarding structural issues.
There is considerable concern that the level of completeness of the structural drawings will expose the
Owners to significant additional costs through change orders.". If this is the case and there was a large
number of RFIS on the project, the possibility of errors and/or omissions in the construction phase would
have increased.
0 Per the Permit Set drawings, the only top mat reinforcement called out in the fifth floor slab is #4 24"
o_o. at the pour strip and (8) #6 each way at the columns. Additional welded wire fabric appears to have
been added in the field (handwritten note has been added to the as-built drawings), however, DEA was
unable to find rebar shop drawings detailing this additional reinforcement. Based on the slab analysis
outlined above, this appears to be a less than adequate amount of top mat reinforcement.
This memo was prepared to provide a brief summary of information reviewed to date. So far it is clear that the
floor slabs at the third, fourth and fifth floor have deflected more than expected. Any conclusions regarding the
cause of this deflection or the structural adequacy of the slabs cannot be made until ftuther evaluation has been
performed. Therefore, we request authorization to proceed with task 4.0 to verify the existing slab construction.
.. aE't1U 
 Initials: JFH
File Name: 0036 Task 3 Sum1nary.doc

